everybody welcome to another episode of
AMA I'm your host Tom bill you and I'm
gonna be taking your questions so you
have a question drop it in right now
this is my version of a lightning round
so I'm gonna be answering as many
questions as possible so submit those
bad boys as soon as they pop up on this
TV I'm gonna burn through them let's get
a little crazy today let's have some fun
it's a Thursday why not if you're in LA
my heart goes out to you I'm so sorry
the Dodgers lost horrific horrific news
I did not pay attention to that at all
but nonetheless I feel your pain hey by
the way if any of you guys are fans of
movies TV shows comic books all that
good stuff we have a new channel impact
Theory studios on YouTube go check that
out we're gonna be releasing another
episode tomorrow this one on thor
ragnarok doing our panel review only go
over there if you guys are into movies
and stuff like that it's all about
movies through the perspective of
mindset what you can learn what you can
take away the matrix changed my life but
it didn't change most people's lives so
we're putting together content that will
hopefully show people how you can
extract a ton of amazing meaning from
stuff like that alright without further
ado today's first question comes from
Daniel Brees oh I can't believe I didn't
mention hey we're on a new set welcome
very excited to be on this set so you
guys will be seeing more and more of
this as we go you've already seen if
you've been watching the panel show over
on impact theory studios you've already
seen one part of the set this is the
other which I'm beyond excited about
which is the logo wall alright Daniel
breeze from Facebook throughout my life
I've tried to do multiple things at the
same time which had absolutely nothing
to do with each other this LED meets
never being a master in any one thing
thus I found that it's best for me to
focus on just one thing at a time what
is your opinion on what Ryan holiday
says about doing different things at the
same time all right this is a reference
to perennial seller which is ryan
holidays most recent books actually a
really good book if you go to impact
Theory calm you can see my knowledge
Trail which is all the books that I've
read actually in order that I read them
as well check that out and one of the
most recent books I think it's one of
the last five that I read was Ryan
Holidays perennial cell
and in that he talks about the thing
that kills most art from ever becoming a
perennial seller meaning that it goes on
to sell for you know ages and ages
decades a hundred years or more is that
people are trying to do multiple things
have nothing to do with each other at
the same time now when they add on each
other it can be very beneficial that
multiple things going but when they are
mutually exclusive have nothing to do
with each other
they basically cancel each other out so
that's why for instance with impact
theory studios you'll see that it's
still all mindset so what we're doing
here we want to literally own mindset
when you think mindset we want you
thinking tom bill you and impact Theory
period so everything that we're gonna do
is going to be around mindset it's going
to be about building your belief system
all that like that is it that's our
universe that's what we want to own even
when Lisa and I are talking about
relationships we're coming at it from
the perspective of mindset coming at it
from how can you think about it how do
you construct a belief system
rules of engagement all that stuff that
allow you to move forward in an
effective manner so I'm totally down
with what Ryan Holliday is saying I
think that you need to pick something
and go deep go hard on that don't be all
over the place alright this next one is
from richer aaj dar it's a pretty dope
name hey Tom could you give me advice on
how to block out distractions when
involved in studying to stop
procrastinating and stay present yes I
can so first of all I would put your
headphones on that shuts out the rest of
the world that is that is a very simple
thing that you can do also I would not
listen to music with lyrics don't listen
to music with lyrics the reason I say
that is your brain some part of your
brain is working on processing human
language when we hear voices which fall
in the auditory range that we are
optimized to hear and then if it's in a
language that we speak then immediately
you're going to begin to try to
understand the meaning of that so what I
do I put on headphones and I listen to I
have a playlist specifically called no
lyrics which is pop music but it's pop
music without lyrics a then the other
his film scores so I listen to a lot of
film scores so
much bigger playlist just because it's
so easy to find amazing music without
lyrics and I put one of those two things
on then the other thing is I adjust my
posture and I furrow my brow so I'm sure
I'm gonna pay for that with lines in my
face but but there's something about the
intensity that that gives me that allows
me to focus now I don't always do the
brow furrowing but if I have something
like reading a contract especially at
the beginning when I'm trying to
generate real momentum on the task I
will do that so I'll sit up really
straight I'll lean forward I'll throw my
brow and I get right into it and then
the other thing is as you find your
attention wandering bring it back bring
it back bring it back because the mind
certainly wants to wander especially if
you're doing something that you find
boring or uninteresting so you're gonna
have to force it back all coming back to
you know habits routines identity I'm
the type of person that forces myself to
focus that brings myself back I don't
accept excuses I don't accept that I
have a DD or anything like that like I
just keep coming back to it so letting
that be a part of how you get back there
just making that demand alright next
question is from Jim 85 this one comes
from a YouTube hey Tom what's up one
question from an argentinean here how do
you organize your ideas to start
actually working on them and stop
lingering on the doubts that cloud the
mind alright this one is really
important and I will eventually write a
book just on this topic alone which is
it's never going to feel like you're
going to accomplish it you're never
going to even with all the success that
I've had in life I've had it because
even though I'm utterly convinced I'm
gonna fail I refuse to let myself
believe that so first of all there's a
voice in my head throwing that out
trying to keep me safe right so cut the
corpus callosum and you actually develop
multiple personalities within one brain
so you do have these multiple voices
that's just a fact of the architect
architecture of our minds so that voice
is always going to be there you don't
have to choose to listen to it you
certainly don't even have to believe it
so I choose to believe I can figure
anything out so that's step number one
that keeps me going and then when I hit
fear that's a
habit loop trigger which reminds me to
step forward to move towards that fear
to do the thing that I am you know that
little voice in my head not even little
the [__] is big and loud but that
voice in my head is telling me that I'm
not gonna be able to do it when you look
at that like the task before you was so
immense you think how am I ever gonna
pull this off that that voice is what
should propel you to move forward to say
yes to the next thing to keep pushing to
keep doing it it's mechanisms you build
these mechanisms the habit loop triggers
into your life so that that fear doesn't
cause you to take an action that will
move you away from your goals that's the
key mechanisms habits belief systems
rules bright lines like these are all
the things that are going to come to
your aid in a moment of crisis and
whether that crisis is fear doubt
uncertainty lack of knowledge whatever
it is that all of those things you've
put into place it's gonna be the thing
that makes you move forward and I'm
really unhappy with my ability to
describe that so this will have to be
and uh how we'll come back to this
another day
but that's huge in my life it's huge
so yeah yes move forward at all times
alright Tam Lam YouTube how do you deal
with your unfocused mind how to kill
procrastination so I used bright lines a
lot for this so you guys know I have a
rule if I'm awake I'm mother working or
working out that's Monday through Friday
I always hate having to qualify but
that's Monday through Friday on the
weekends I have a different balance I
still work but it's balance differently
so but Monday through Friday if I'm
awake I'm working or working out and so
because I have that bright line because
that's part of my identity because I
come and say this to you guys and I want
to be congruent with that and I want to
feel good about myself all of that
weight forces me to act also I am very
and this is huge this is huge I have a
very compelling future I'm excited by
what I'm trying to build I believe in it
I believe I can make the world a better
place I believe I can become capable of
more and because of all of that and very
excited about the idea of becoming
better more powerful more capable I own
the things that excite me I don't feel
guilty or judge my
so for them like getting more powerful
excites me becoming capable of things
tomorrow that I'm not capable of today
is exciting and I'd literally don't
understand people who aren't excited by
that it's utter madness to me but that
is so thrilling to me and I've seen that
play out in my life and such powerful
and incredible ways seven to 18 years
ago now 18 years ago I was scrounging
through my couch cushions to find enough
change to put gas in my car and I come
to you live from a mansion in Beverly
Hills with a set that we built this is
in my [__] house like this is all
crazy to me and because it is such a
huge gap from where I started to where I
am today it's like I
to quote 50 cent I came in the game
humble can't nobody tell me [__] now so
18 years ago you might have been able to
convince me that's simply believing that
you can figure things out is stupid and
I would have been like oh my god maybe
you can't do whatever you set your mind
to but now I am utterly convinced
because I've seen it play out in my life
so get compelled by your future be
excited that you can figure things out
make sure the thing that you're trying
to figure out is something you care
deeply about and you won't want to
procrastinate alright question of the
day Dan Clancy this is from Facebook
have you ever gone down a rabbit hole of
research only to find you have the same
conclusion as when you started of course
many many times yes there it is and
don't be discouraged sometimes that's
just what you have to do you go down you
open yourself up to being changed but at
the end of the day it didn't change you
the key is to go pit go in open to being
changed but not everyone is going to
convince you
question from Mortensen because soma
this is from Facebook hi Tom my
brilliant ideas I give anyone else pause
I have brilliant ideas including a book
I'm writing now except I am in a
iconoclast thinks different and seems
people won't understand my point of view
and what I would want to communicate to
them people are used to the conventional
normal way of doing things how can I
break this pattern in these humans and
get on top
I'm gonna take a drink of water really
fast all right Morton I'm coming at you
with love man but here's the reality in
in the language that you're using in
that question like you are you don't yet
have the identity of a learner and the
most important thing you could do like
in and I don't know you fair enough and
all I have to go on is this question but
in in this question there are so many
dangerous words so maybe like it just
didn't come across the way that you
meant it but there's a lot of dangerous
words so never assume your ideas are
brilliant and it would be so cool like I
really want to think that I'm an
iconoclast like that would be awesome
but here's how I view myself I have
ideas some end up being brilliant and
some are really [__] terrible and I'm
always testing them against the market
so you want to build your identity
around being the learner not being right
not being smart not being an iconoclast
like don't worry about whether your
ideas are brilliant but just law of
averages said most of them won't be and
what I would be doing is looking at this
these humans maybe the most troubling
thing that you say so meet people with
compassion and love and if people if you
have a really awesome idea and people
aren't getting it you have to own that
that's you man
you've got to accept that you're not
communicating in a way that those people
can understand you that they can hear
you and so I was doing an interview
yesterday on somebody else's podcast and
I broke something down and I thought
[__] like that was genius man and if
these people are listening like there it
is gonna change their lives and then one
of the guys in the feed was like yo you
lost me and at that point I did not
think well that guy's an idiot I thought
wow like I thought I had gotten to like
this really clear way of explaining it
and I realized I hadn't because if I had
he would have understood so I'm taking
ownership of that so here's the hard
truth
you don't need to break the pattern in
these people you need to recognize that
that's how people process and if you
really are an iconoclast
and you really have brilliant ideas your
job now becomes to convey them in a way
that people can actually understand so
you can help them and change them being
a tortured misunderstood artist to me
holds no value in society whatsoever so
I don't think there's any reason that
people need to be so far ahead of their
time that people don't understand
I think the Steve Jobs was like at the
leading edge like he was way ahead of
everybody else but he had a way of
making it accessible and because of that
he built the most valuable company on
the planet so that's somebody who said I
have to figure this out I have to learn
how to communicate with people so man
really really open yourself up that
you're gonna be wrong a lot open
yourself up to the most powerful thing
you could have is humility open yourself
up to to loving being wrong because then
you can identify where it is that your
communication is breaking down okay
next question is from Julian Chong this
is from Facebook what will you tell a
thirty year old having a stable job but
always wanted to do her own business but
yet fear the opportunity cost of having
to give up a stable career do both so
you're gonna start the side hustle
you're gonna grind it out during the day
and then at nights and weekends you're
going to start the business you're gonna
actually get traction and then when the
business is getting to a point where you
clearly can see this is going to work
and the problem is only that you don't
have enough time to allocate to it
that's when you go jettison your job you
don't do it before then so that's
exactly what we did a quest
we kept awareness technologies while we
were building up quest and then only
left as it was financially viable so I
cut all my expenses to the quick that's
another thing that you're gonna want to
do my wife and I stopped going out we
literally just knocked our expenses back
as low as we could I cut my pay to 1/3
so that I could afford to go take time
to build quest while still making
contributions to the technology company
but that's really it you have to do both
you just have to work a [__] ton of
hours and by the way before I stopped
working full time in the technology
company we were still building
Qwest so we would literally work all day
at awareness and then at night and on
weekends we'd make protein bars so you
just got to grind it out you got to
throw an inhuman amount of energy at it
all right next question is from Erin
Murray Kramer on YouTube what do you
think about multi-level marketing
companies that use a pyramid scheme well
I used to do one so I was in prepaid
legal so if you've ever heard me talk
about how he used to walk door-to-door
to sell insurance that's what I was
telling was prepaid legal so you spend
some of your time selling and then some
of your time trying to get people in
your downstream if you believe in the
product which I really did believe in
prepaid legal then I don't see I don't
have any beef with it whatsoever if it's
all a scam to get people below you who
aren't ever going to be successful and
you're just trying to dupe them into
buying that starter kit which is the one
thing in the industry that makes all of
this dodgy like if there was no upfront
fees and it was all just about hate
people come in they grind it it's like
will you welcome all comers and they get
in and do their thing and then you only
get paid if you help them be successful
with no upfront costs then I'm I'm Way
all for it it's that most people are
making the bulk of their revenue off the
starter kit to the other people in their
downline by selling a dream and then
they end up sitting on that and they
never sell it that's super shitty so but
if you're gonna offer let's say a
money-back guarantee so you make them
buy the kit the starter kit as a way to
make sure that they're serious yeah I
fully get that but then if you are
unable to help them be successful then
you should buy the kit back I think that
that I have no beef with that all right
did we scroll up okay this one comes
from Billy France on YouTube why is
family critical when you're on your way
to greatness huh
so here's the thing everybody gets to
pick what it is that they care about
relationships I will just tell you the
way the humans are wired you need strong
relationships to feel fulfilled to have
a deep sense of connection we are
neurologically wired for that so unless
you're going to have something implanted
in your brain that makes you no longer
wired for that or maybe you're asking
the question because you're not wired
for that so if for whatever reason
spending time with family and I'll say
friend
because your family could be a bunch of
[__] for all I know I have no idea
in which case I wouldn't over prioritize
family so you have to be very very clear
on what it is that you care about what
it is that's giving you positive
feedback in your life in fact Tuesday's
episode of impact Theory was with Lewis
Howes and he talks about this that he
prioritizes his vision so the thing that
he's trying to bring into this world is
more important to him than his family
you know he said it doesn't mean that he
doesn't spend a lot of time his family
it doesn't mean he's not completely
present with his family and tries to
really be there for him but when the two
things come into conflict that he's
going to over index on the vision that
he has when he's trying to create so
you've got to decide that for yourself
nobody can tell you but I will say that
the thing that I spent the vast majority
of my time on is my business and no
uncertain terms because I love it it
gives me energy I believe in what I'm
trying to do I'm deeply passionate about
it however from a like value-system
perspective my wife is my highest value
and so if ever the to come into conflict
I will choose her so but the one thing I
told her she could never ask me to give
up would be my ambition so she knows in
the relationship she's got to make room
for that ambition that I'm always gonna
be striving for something massive but
the only reason to spend time with your
family is because you enjoy it you get
something positive out of it that's the
only reason spend time with anybody so
yeah I just think it's innate to us as
humans to really get massive positive
feedback from strong beautiful
relationships okay question from Marius
Tudor this from Facebook hi Tom really
like a show
thank you very much God have a bit of a
weird question I work with high EE high
spend clients in digital marketing and I
get really good results for them how do
i scale down that knowledge to actually
start my own business with significantly
less budget than my existing clients how
do I scaled down that knowledge so I
don't quite understand what you mean by
scale down that knowledge so I'm just
gonna answer this question how do you
start your own business taking what you
know but knowing that ultimately this is
going to be on a smaller scale because
you don't have access to all of the
different employees and stuff so first
and foremost you have to be very very
careful to just become the practitioner
so go read the book the
three visited by Michael Gerber he talks
about what ends up happening is you're
gonna go do all the marketing stuff for
your clients instead of orchestrating
other people to do it now there's gonna
be some of that the beginning there's no
question you're just gonna have to work
an inhuman number of hours but you're
gonna have to have your eye towards
bringing on other people to help you the
easiest way to do that in the beginning
is to get people that you can pay via
equity so you're not gonna pay them a
salary gonna pay them with equity
they're also gonna be somebody who's
doing this at nights and weekends go out
get clients two three of you come
together where now you're able to split
all the operational things that the
business is going to need and you can
bring your personal areas of expertise
find people with complementary skill
sets don't just have three people the
exact same skill set and then you're
gonna go out you're gonna get your
clients and you're gonna put them
through the you know obviously a very
scaled-down version assuming that you're
at a larger company now but you should
be able to if you're willing to reinvest
all of your profits you should be able
to very quickly bring on other employees
if you're really able to deliver results
and I want to say everything is
predicated on that if you have high
spent clients with a good margin and you
deliver good results for them and those
results are because of you and what you
know and understand then it's a nights
and weekends to begin but I would expect
if you're really delivering results this
is a six to twelve month like hardcore
nights and weekends endeavor and then
you should be able to start bringing on
employees um if you're really getting
results get a few people to help you so
it's not just you offer equity and not
pay and there you have it and there's
ways to structure the equity so that if
they're not pulling their weight or
whatever that you could you know by
majority vote or whatever remove them
from the company and if they're not
pulling their weight so just make sure
all of that's laid out very clearly
everybody understands it agrees upon it
ahead of time to avoid any trauma all
right question is from Lester bataya
face book do you really think one needs
a chip on his shoulder to stay motivated
as one of your past video suggests I
really hope my past video does not
suggest that I hope my past video makes
it abundantly [__] clear that yes if
you want to play on the world stage I do
not believe you're ever going to get
there without roughly 20% of your time
being
used leveraging what we'll call the dark
side or a chip on your shoulder because
I think the beautiful things in life
only take you so far so this is based on
studies that have come out that show if
you've got somebody that has to endure
pain and if you're building a business
or trying to succeed at the highest
level I promise pain is coming for you
the only way to get people to push
beyond what the normal person can push
beyond is allow them to express and
internalize anger rage so put somebody's
arm in a bucket of ice this is one of
the real tests they did put their arm in
a bucket of ice time to leave it there
as long as they can let's say on average
people can leave it there for seven
minutes and 22 seconds if you want them
to be able to do it for ten minutes plus
let them get angry as it starts to
really hurt let them yell and swear and
really get pissed off and they'll be
able to keep it in I think it's roughly
thirty percent longer so it has a
massive impact on your ability to push
through pain so I think humans are just
wired for both I think if you spend more
than 20% of your time there it is going
to corrode you in no uncertain terms so
I'm not saying turn yourself to the dark
side become an angry person like know
who the [__] wants to live like that
must be around somebody like that eighty
percent of your time should be spent on
the beautiful things that you want to do
the things you're grateful for I 80
percent kids
it's the vast majority of your time but
for very acute moments I think that you
do want to leverage your capability to
get very focused angry there's there is
intoxication in rage because there is so
much certainty there's so much clarity
you know exactly what you're doing and
you manifest a physiological response
it's going to allow you to push through
so there it is by the way if you hate
spending your time there no worries
either go out and try to prove me wrong
which hey that would be amazing
or be just don't try to play at that
level there is no moral obligation to
work as hard as I work to spend as much
time and energy on this as I do to be
willing to dip into the dark side like
you don't have to do that but if you
want a real treatise on the power of the
dark side read Tim Grover's roulette
unless he's the guy that trained Michael
Jordan Kobe Bryant Dwayne Wade just a
lot of of the greatest of all time in
basketball and he said the one thing
they all have in common is they're able
to tap into that dark side and I yeah
that has certainly been true in my own
life so that's my answer all right
question from abhilash vola T this is
from YouTube Tom it feels so good to
watch your videos but it is now becoming
a problem I get a dopamine hit every
time I watch one of your videos and I
end up procrastinating how do I prevent
this so you've got two options one don't
watch the videos and just [__] grind
it out to allocate some period during
your day where it's like from this time
to this time if I've gotten XYZ done
first then I will watch these videos and
then I will immediately take action so
that's what I do
so during the times that I'm eating if
I'm masticating then while I'm chewing I
allow myself to watch things maybe it's
something that motivates me inspires me
or maybe it's somebody and I do this a
lot to essentially put bamboo shoots
under my fingernails to watch people who
make better content than me to remind
myself that I have a long way to go that
if I really want to have the kind of
impact on this world that I want to have
I got to get a lot better and so for
anybody out there that's into movies
comic books TV shows you know that we
started a new channel on YouTube called
impact theory studios we're doing panels
and some other cool stuff around films
and stuff the one that we're doing
coming up is Thor Ragnarok but let me
tell you I got to get a lot better at
this [__] so a lot of times I'm watching
what are other people doing in this
world because I'm going to beat them
every single one so you can see for me I
watch things that not only motivate and
inspire me but I plan to take action
immediately on this stuff so while if
I've done my morning routine as I should
have and I've gotten important things
done and I'm moving things forward while
I'm eating then I allow myself to watch
that stuff okay so next question is from
Satyam Singh ow yeah yeah this is from
YouTube how do I be fearless in public
because I feel dumb when I speak or open
up with my opinion
at times I would like to address this
okay so you're never gonna become
fearless so let's start with that so my
favorite definition of courage is
courage is not the lack of fear its
rising up in spite of the fear that's
what awaits us all there are gonna be
things that freak you out you're going
to be afraid there's no question you
just have to have a a belief that you
move towards the things if you're you
that you're afraid of so part of the
reason that I think that's true is the
reason that you're afraid is there are
real stakes there are real consequences
which means if there's real stakes real
consequences if you get it right and do
well then there's positive opportunity I
look at all of life as practice and not
performance so it's like hey here's an
opportunity for me to practice there are
some stakes to this I really hope it
goes well but if it doesn't no worries
there'll be another opportunity because
I'm always moving towards that
opportunity I'm always trying to create
that opportunity in fact I have a
meeting today I'm not gonna go I'm not
gonna talk about it but I'll give you
vagaries so there is a celebrity who I
basically just kept telling everyone so
I know this person I know their team
pretty well and so I just kept telling
him this is what I'm doing I want to do
something with your boy I want to this
is it this is what I want to create
knowing that if they say yes and they
take the meeting now I really have to
figure this [__] out and I really have
to go convince them and today is that
day so but I'm excited about it because
if I fail cool on to the next one and
I'll learn from that and I'll try it
again and again and again and again and
again until finally someone will say yes
or I'll realize that this isn't actually
moving me towards my goals but I'm so I
know about myself I'm so [__]
relentless I'm not going to stop and
when you know that about yourself when
you've proven that to yourself over time
whether you go in and [__] up whether
you walk into the room and embarrass
yourself what does it matter you know
next time you'll still do it again
you'll keep pushing forward so no amount
of embarrassment is going to stop me no
amount of failure is going to stop me
in in that failure I'm going to learn so
even though I still have that fear
response and it is oddly not as strong
as it used to be but it's still pretty
[__] strong I know about myself
that I will keep pushing for it I will
keep creating opportunities
we'll keep telling people what I'm doing
even if it means I get embarrassed
somewhere along the way because I failed
to do it because I know in the end it is
a winning strategy that's been employed
to great success not only by myself but
virtually every person who's ever been
successful ever at anything so it's a
winning strategy embrace it play the
long game and remember like Jim Carrey
said until somebody tells you this is
the Nightman if you crush it tonight
your career is set and if you fail
tonight you're never gonna make it
until you [__] that up at least five
times you haven't even gotten started
all right next up is from Nadia Noreen
this is Facebook hi Tom I've been
unemployed seven months now and the job
market is really bad companies here are
quietly sending people home due to the
downturn in the economy the last couple
of days I woke up really anxious and
panicked because well frankly the money
is running out how do I stay positive
and not give in to fear second how do I
go about figuring out my next steps all
right so here's more millionaires were
created in the Great Depression than any
other time in human history that used to
be true I won't swear that that's true
to this day but that means that more
millionaires were created because it's
the only other time period since before
that stat I knew to be true was the
Great Recession
so in moments of disruption there are
always moments of opportunity also the
best employees are always the ones that
stay around the longest so you control
whether you become a true linchpin
whether you're one of those people that
people can't do without whether you're
really delivering a crushing amount of
value or not so every time I met with
fear uncertainty not knowing where
things are gonna go and this man if you
want to read a book that really
personifies this read Walt Disney by
Neal Gabler who talks about every time
Disney was hit with fear or uncertainty
or his life wasn't going well he wasn't
making money he redoubled his efforts on
making his product better let me say
that one more time every time he was hit
with fear uncertainty money was nowhere
to be found he doubled down and making
his product better and that is my
response always to fear and uncertainty
get better get better get better my
skill set develop that go out network
meet more people dream bigger don't
shrink back this is the time to engage
right when there's blood in the streets
that's when you invest when there's
blood
[__] streets that's when you invest
it isn't when things are going well when
things are going well that's when the
price is reflected I'm reading your book
principles homie
so everybody mad shout out to chase
who's got me on my most recent book by
Ray Dalio called principles and he's
talking about this when everyone's in
agreement that's reflected in the price
so when everyone agrees like in this
example if you're playing it safe and
doing what everybody thinks you should
be doing that's when you're actually
going to not have as much value to bring
because everybody's on that same page so
you've got to be the contrarian and
right and the easiest way to do that is
to just have a crushing crushing
crushing amount of skills so focus on
getting better and that's going to
address that and remember you're always
in control and if you get fired by the
way it is not the economy's fault it's
your fault so I say that only so that
you will own it and remember that you
can do something to empower yourself
because you're going to crush it you're
going to focus on skills the seven-month
drought hopefully you're learning in
that every time you go and apply and
don't get a job what do you take away
from that how does that empower you so
that you can go in and crush it go find
out go on LinkedIn people are gonna be
talking about this become the expert on
LinkedIn what are people saying what's
the word on the street about what you
need to do to get a job in this economy
get after it
own it stay in control alright next
question is from Nick arose Facebook
when you hire your employees that's a
full sentence when you when do you hire
your employees what do you look for and
what stands out to you who who would
that person have to be in order for you
to hire him or her on the spot okay it's
it's not that it never happens but as
you scale it's been in and out go back
please it's not that it never happens
it's pretty rare that you're gonna hire
people on the spot because that's
usually just an emotional decision and I
want to see if I still feel the same way
about them the next day but what I'm
looking for I look for three things an
employee I look for grand ambition
because if you don't have grand ambition
if you don't want something big if
you're not willing to play on a massive
scale I'm gonna seem crazy to you the
next thing I look for is Drive I am NOT
interested in empty dreamers so
drive to me is another word for grit I
need people that are really gonna stick
it out that you're just you're so
hell-bent to make it happen that you'll
fight through boredom you'll fight
through failure you fight through
embarrassment all of that and that you
really want to get good and that you're
making huge demands of yourself that's
absolutely critical to me and then the
third thing and this is the thing that I
think makes our company a little unique
is that I'm looking for people with
compassion so I'm looking for a grand
ambition Drive and compassion normally
you find grand ambition Drive and
competitiveness and I want people that
are compassionate I want people that
want to play as a team
I want people that have competitiveness
in them but when compassion and
competitiveness collide I want
compassion to went out I want them to
want their teammates to shine I want
them to look for ways to help I want
them to be encouraging I don't want a
doggy-dog environment I want people to
trust I want long-term relationships
there's nothing worse than a frenemy
buck frenemies so yeah those are my
three things all right next question is
from Geraldine zagore
this is from Facebook finally after
years of confusion I've discovered my
passion which is to create educational
opportunities for marginalized children
that's pretty cool especially in
developing countries but I am stuck due
to lack of funds how do I get financial
support to achieve the vision all right
if you've really got an amazing vision
and you can tell a compelling story I'd
go and Kickstarter or go fund me or
something like that I think there's even
one chase you can help me out here
that's focused on nonprofits all right
chase and I are both failing you
apologies but there is something out
there I think like that where you can go
tell your story in a very compelling way
get people excited to help you and get
funds that way alternatively find a way
to productize helping people I'll give
you a great example
Jessica o Mathews whose company is
called uncharted play she was a guest on
impact theory NGO watched that episode
she's amazing and she wanted just like
you wanted to help underprivileged
children in developing countries and one
of the things was they don't have light
they don't have electricity so they
can't study at night so what she created
was a soccer ball that as you kicked it
it was storing kinetic energy and then
you could plug a lamp into it
and it was both a soccer ball and
battery essentially so pretty cool and
she's now got a she's raised more
capital than any other black woman I
think ever so it's really really cool so
there are definitely ways to productize
something in a beautiful way to build a
business that adds value
I mean hey I'll take this opportunity to
remind everybody impact Theory is a
for-profit company but we want to help
people but hey speaking of for-profit go
right now to shop that impact Theory
comm buy some what we call self
signaling items so sure it's like thou
my god chase you didn't even remind me
so do the work is one of our shirts so
if you want to help kids you got to do
the work and you can pick up a shirt
right now shop that impact Theory com
get on it
all right next up aha aha aha
is there another way to say that that's
amazing all right a Hannie incredible
name by the way Facebook how can I let
go of people that are very important to
me but decided not to care for me
anymore I had someone in my life who
believed in me always and pushed me and
gave me the feeling I could be better
than I am but now he ignores me and
apparently gave up on me how to stop
myself from being devastated about it
move on all right man this is let me
just tell you where I stand on this
human nature okay
human nature both in your side and their
side so first of all most relationships
are temporary it's very very rare for a
relationship to last forever if you're
not putting in an inhuman amount of work
to make sure that you stay connected and
things like that the chances are that as
my boy Phil Jackson said things come
together things fall apart so enjoy the
people while they're in your life while
they're supporting you and then as you
begin to fall apart just realize that
that is human nature that people grow in
different directions and that's very
very okay so doesn't mean that anything
about you is bad or that he realized oh
my god like you're a terrible person and
so now he's going on in his own way
finally realizing that you were waste of
time it's not that it's just that now
he's got different interests things that
are pulling him in a different direction
that's absolutely fine be super grateful
for the time you guys had together
hopefully it was amazing sounds like it
was pretty beautiful and wonderful so
rad but when I think about the way that
friends have
in and out of my life during different
phases been awesome I've enjoyed them
while I had them and I've enjoyed the
new friends as they've come into my life
so then the other thing is you have to
understand yourself you need to believe
in yourself you need to have a belief
system that will come to you in moments
of crisis where you doubting yourself
you need to believe humans are the
ultimate adaptation machine that we have
this voice is meant to keep us safe so
even though like I feel full of doubt I
know that because what we're wired to do
as a human is get good at things if I
apply myself I can get good at it so
it's not about somebody outside of me
believing in me it's about just
accepting the reality of the human
ability to grow and adapt and so am i
doing the work available at shop in Peck
3com right now or not and if you're not
doing the work then there's your problem
so yeah those are the two things about
human nature you need to understand
things come together things fall apart
friends are gonna come in and out of
your life just the reality of things
then the other is that's how the mind
works you're gonna have self-doubt but
you need to have belief system that's
gonna protect you in those moments to
remember that you can do anything you
set your mind to on a long enough
timeline
okay next question is from Andre Germano
Andre Germano Tom have you been making
money with IT yes but the more powerful
question is are you guys profitable and
the answer is no so we have a long-range
plan we laid it out on the website we
know it's going to take years doing it
the way that we're doing it to actually
be profitable but we've gotten more and
more top-line revenue month after month
so I'm very encouraged by the
directionality we're right where we
wanted to be in terms of spend and
investment in the company
but we saw have a long way to go and
that's why I say man you got to show up
every day playing like it all has to
happen right now today there is no
tomorrow I have no [__] patience I'm
going all-out every day because I know
if I don't that we won't hit our goal
four years from now so that man I can't
stress that enough
so yeah that's where we're at next
question is from basil Paul hello Tom
I'm a big fan of yours from India what
is up India please suggest some tips to
wake up at 4:00 a.m. the only tip I have
is go to bed
whatever time you need to so that you
naturally wake up before him that's it
that is the sum total of my strategy I
do not that's almost true sometimes I'll
admit I'll have like water to drink at
night knowing that it'll limit the
amount that I sleep be still need to be
but that's actually pretty rare but even
then I know that I'll wake up on a
natural cycle so the real tip is
prioritize sleep get as much sleep as
you need sleep sleep sleep that's how
you cognitively optimize people always
ask me how I've have so much energy and
the answer is I sleep I sleep I work out
and I get a lot of exercise so sleep
workout get exercise that's the key
don't worry about waking up at 4 a.m. if
you're going to bed at 7 p.m. and you
wake up at 5 a.m.
you just need a shit-ton asleep so get
the sleep get the sleep it's the only
way to be super sharp and then I think
you'll find over time once you stop
using an alarm and you just sleep as
long as you need that your sleep cycle
will shorten to something reasonable say
seven eight hours ish is probably
typical for the average person as you
get older it may shorten that's actually
been one of the greatest advantages of
getting older for me I sleep less
alright question from Mari Seeger or
Facebook how do men receive strong and
powerful women all right this goes on
but I'll just tell you right now the
answer to that varies person by person
by person so there's no one universal
way some are absolutely terrified
intimidated and they will run in the
opposite direction and some are wildly
intoxicated so it it completely depends
on the person especially as a life
partner and in a relationship it has
been a little troubling because usually
men have the natural need to be the
alpha and I am a naturally strong strong
and a little dominant woman so it hasn't
worked for me and a longer perspective
thoughts yes stop going after guys that
are alpha so if you know that you want
to be the Alpha in the relationship then
find a guy who naturally fits into a
beta role so somebody's gonna be the
alpha somebody's gonna be the beta in a
relationship with two betas I think it's
doomed in a relationship with two alphas
I promise it's doomed
so yeah somebody is gonna have the alpha
energy someone's gonna have the beta
energy and by the way that does not mean
the good energy and the bad energy being
beta man you
you bring something absolutely critical
to the the role and the way my wife and
I refer to X I'm the office she's the
beta is they're both roles neither is
better than the other
they're just roles so my wife doesn't
want to be in the leadership role but
man she wants to be better than me at a
lot of things she wants to be amazing
she wants to play to the highest of her
abilities she wants to constantly be
getting better but she doesn't
necessarily want to be the
decision-maker that's just not what she
enjoys she doesn't feel that it speaks
to her strengths but once we've decided
this is what we're doing there is no
better human on the planet to make sure
that it actually happens and so that's
been the way that our roles have come
together and it's been absolutely
amazing there are people in my life that
I love very very much men whether you're
incredible human beings but they're beta
and that's their natural energy that's
where they want to be that's what they
respond to is it because they had a
really strong mom and they respond to
that who knows but that's the role that
they love playing that they feel super
comfortable in and I've actually seen
I'm thinking of one person in particular
I've seen him with both an alpha woman
and a beta woman when he was with the
beta woman it did not work out because
they were both looking for the other
person to take leadership and neither of
them did it was super frustrating for
both of them and then when he found an
alpha female dude they're so happy it's
incredible and and they've been together
now for a very very long time so yeah
fine find the person whose energy
matches yours or complements yours I
should say all right a question from
Aisha
Aurora this is Facebook how to maintain
balance with your emotional side when
you know it's getting difficult to to
let go of things so I don't have an
inherent trust of my emotions so that's
probably the best place to start I think
a lot of times emotions are gonna make
you make decisions that don't make a lot
of sense so I keep my emotions in check
I'm always asking myself what moves me
towards my goals and usually the thing
that moves me towards my goals is not to
be emotional and so I I let go of those
things I literally will deep breathe
them away
because I don't believe that my emotions
are more true than logic which is where
I think a lot of people go like emotions
seem real they're visceral you're
experiencing them you're going through
it they think because of that logic
feels so cold and distant and it's just
like me like doing a math equation
that's not how I see it there are things
in my life that on a macro level are
just true on a long timeline are true
like that's the course that I want to
walk so rather than getting lost in that
emotion and giving in to that and
thinking just because it comes with a
neurochemical cascade that I have to
ride that wave I know that there are
things you can do from just a
physicality standpoint to immediately
negate an emotion I know that you can
meditate stress and anxiety away there's
never been a time in my life and I've
been through some crazy [__] there's
never been a time in my life where
meditation didn't take me to exactly
zero stress and anxiety now that doesn't
mean that once I stopped meditating that
it didn't start creeping back up but
every time I could meditate my way to
absolute zero stress and anxiety so and
then the more that you do it obviously
the longer the periods where you that
continues even after you've stopped
meditating continues so if at first it's
only while you meditate and then it's
while you meditate plus twenty minutes
and then it's while you meditate plus
two hours and it's while you meditate
plus ten hours and it's while you
meditate plus two days so on and so
forth like you just keep meditating as
that time gets longer and longer so
there are things you can do from a
physicality perspective that are gonna
help you break those motions so that's
what I would do all right next question
is from Brian Rock Camp Facebook
greetings from New Jersey
what's up Jersey I was listening to
Charles Duhigg I dig that guy talk about
the power of habit he spoke about the
problem of going down cognitive tunnels
and over focusing which distract us from
what is important any thoughts on
staying out of them so again I'm pushing
everything against or running everything
through the filter of does this move me
towards my goal or not if it does that
I'm gonna do it no matter how boring
hard difficult whatever and if it does
I'm not gonna do it no matter how much
fun pleasurable whatever etc so that
yeah
I'm he's absolutely right you can over
focus on anything and the the problem is
for me anyway
there's so many things that I'm
passionate about I'm excited about that
I really want to do that it's really
coming down to choosing them and I've
heard this said I don't remember by who
multiple people actually you can do
everything just not at the same time so
you're gonna have to do them
sequentially so yeah you got to decide
what's the thing I'm gonna focus on
right now what's the thing that's most
likely gonna take me towards my goals go
after that all right next question is
from Johannes Durham er Johannes Sturmer
what were your most embarrassing moments
in business and how did you handle it
well my most embarrassing moment in
business was when I was trying to build
Billy photography and I was were haka
this is so embarrassing I even hate
telling this story I was working a party
and I was using a camera that I didn't
really understand and I wasn't smart
enough to spend however long it took and
this is pre-internet so I wasn't smart
enough to take the time to really learn
and figure out the camera and there were
sometimes for whatever reason where the
flash would not go off and if the flash
wouldn't go off it wouldn't take a
picture I know why and there was it was
unfortunately not a great camera and so
there was no full manual so there's no
way to force it to take a picture so
basically if it thought you were taking
a bad picture it just wouldn't take the
[__] picture so here I am not being
able to put it in full manual mode and
am at a party and I have got to take
these pictures and these two or three
women are staring waiting for me to take
the picture won't take it won't take it
won't take and my answer my solution to
this problem brace yourself chase was to
make the click sound of the camera with
my voice that haunts me to this day that
is so embarrassing like ah but
nonetheless it's true that's what I did
that is by far I still think that's the
most embarrassing moment of my life
period I can't believe I did that they
obviously knew that I made the clicking
sound with my voice I didn't fool
anybody oh dear
so and how did I handle it
I honestly handled it by skulking off in
shame that's what I did and by being
haunted by it tell this very day but I
leverage it and I tell people that story
so that when I say I did not show early
signs of promise I mean it I was doing
stupid [__] like that and I had to learn
all of these lessons the very hard way
by engaging deeply by reading by having
your growth mindset all of that because
I didn't have a growth mindset back then
otherwise it would have just said hey
guys I'm so sorry I can't figure out my
camera right now give me a second but
because I was trying to protect my ego
and I didn't want to be embarrassed I
ended up doing the most embarrassing
thing ever all right
question from Alex Ashman YouTube can
you talk in depth about why suffering is
necessary for self-discovery and why
almost all successful people have gone
through some sort of suffering it's it's
the brain is wired for that so you're
more likely to remember something that
has heightened emotions so that that is
literally the biological way that we
store our memories so at some point
nature realized you could remember
everything and there seemed to be people
like Kim Peak who can peak is the person
they based Rain Man on he could read two
books simultaneously he had no corpus
callosum so the two hemispheres of his
brain didn't communicate he could
memorize memorize memorize two different
books at the same time so one on the
left eye one on the right eye he wasn't
just reading them he was memorizing them
on a single pass so you really can
remember everything but it's a terrible
strategy so you've got to know what's
more important than the other thing and
the easiest way for the brain to do that
is heightened emotions if something
triggers something and you danger threat
those are clearly things you're gonna
want to remember so if you narrowly
avoided getting eaten by a tiger hey the
next time you see orange moving through
the bush turn and run so that is a
memory you are not going to want to
forget so heightened emotions allow us
to really remember something and one of
the ways the heightened your emotions is
the sufferer to go through something
terrible where you're pushing back
against you never want to go through
that again
and so your brain will rise to your
defenses and it will it will allow for
real and lasting change based on that to
make sure that you don't get in that
shitty situation again alright next
question is from Johanna strmer again
when you invest in an and I in an idea
from someone else what qualities to the
people who have the idea must have
literally nothing they need to have an
idea that I can realize is right that
it's actually going to move me towards
my goals so man I will take a good idea
from anywhere from anyone if somebody
walked in right now that like wanted to
kill me they hated me they had made an
entire video series about what a jerk I
was but they have an idea that I can use
I'm gonna use that idea you've got to be
able to separate the message from the
messenger if the message is good use it
no matter what all right next question
is from Christian Arroyo Facebook what
happens when you have more drive and
ambition than the employees you get jobs
with and eventually it does not work out
because you seem to be more on top of
things than they are and it doesn't work
out what chase do you understand that
what happens when you have more drive
and ambition than the employees you get
jobs with so it sounds like their peers
and eventually does not work out because
you seem to be more on top of things
than they are
and doesn't the employers asking that is
that that are official all right so
we'll answer it from that perspective
well if you as the employer have more
drive and ambition than your oh then
your employers ah what happens when you
have more driving ambition no no no
don't scroll off what happens when you
have more drive and ambition than your
employers you get the jobs with oh man
so Christian forgive me I'm gonna read
through this one it is entirely possible
that your employees are absolute
Psychopaths but I'm gonna guess if you
ran into that one time in your life that
would be shocking first of all second of
all it sounds like this keeps happening
to you so I'm just gonna I'm gonna help
you out man it's all your fault
so my father-in-law when I first met
them he was trying to give me business
advice cuz he was paranoid that I was
gonna make his daughter poor forever and
so he gave me the best piece of advice
that he had and it went like this when
you go into a room make sure you know
more about whatever is being discussed
than anyone else
the room he said this is gonna be how
you get ahead with your boss so go in if
they have a meeting about something make
sure that you research it so well before
you walk into that room that you
actually know more about the project
that they're trying to move forward as
the lowest guy on the totem pole then
they do he's like when you do that
you're gonna move rapidly through the
krump the company and do you know what
my dumb ass said I actually said to him
my bosses aren't like that they really
don't like people to put their ideas
forward they don't like people with that
kind of ambition sound familiar
and here's the lesson that I learned of
course they did the truth was I didn't
know more about it than them I probably
came across like an arrogant prick or
like I was aloof and so I wasn't moving
up fast enough because before I even did
the work to become so good that they
couldn't ignore me because remember what
your boss is care about they get rich
off of your ideas in what universe would
they ever be like we don't want your
idea kid because you know we don't want
to be that successful like their egos
are so fragile that they won't take that
good idea middle managers yes 100% but
the owners the actual employers in your
company absolutely [__] not again if
you come across one person like that in
an entire life I would be startled
because those people won't stay in
business
they're gonna go under that's just the
reality so if you that the real answer
here is for whatever reason either you
don't know enough or you don't know how
to communicate it that is the truth but
man like this is awesome right now you
know and if you can go and start knowing
more about it than anyone else start
delivering so much value they can't
ignore you and doing it in a way where
even middle managers are open to your
ideas because you're smart you recognize
human nature and you deliver your ideas
in a way that people can hear you and
embrace you allow them to share on the
credit like whatever you need to do to
make sure that you get your ideas across
you do it I have since by the way
apologized to my father-in-law for such
an asinine reaction and if you've ever
wondered why when I go into an interview
I get people answering like I've had
people literally say you know more about
me than my own mother
sound familiar it's finding me taking my
father-in-law's advice when I walk into
an interview to interview somebody for
impact theory I make sure that I have
researched them so well there's nowhere
they can go that I'm not going to have
already learned that about them okay
knowing more about it than anyone else
it really is some of the most powerful
advice get so good they can hang for you
you're telling me you're being ignored
which tells me you're not good enough
yet
alright so we're reaching the end here
next question is from Chris Mansfield
Facebook Tom I've started my own
business in a service industry things
are going well professionally the
company is growing in the direction I
would want to see it go that said
personally I'm not enjoying the process
or experience I think some of this might
be the result of being a one-man show
aside from consultants everything
bringing success in the company brings
lack of enjoyment personally any advice
yes you the game you're playing is not
success it's not money it is brain
chemistry if you're not having fun make
your radical change immediately so it
sounds like you need to read Michael E
Gerber's book the e-myth revisited
interesting that's come up twice what he
talks about is don't work in your
business work on your business so you
want to figure out how you can get other
people to come in and do some of the
things you're either not good at don't
want to do and are stopping you from
growing the business so bring those
people and give them equity if you have
to but find a way that you can
compartmentalize your part of the
business to what you love most if that
strategy strategy if it's you know being
in the weeds working on a particular
aspect great go do that but then you're
gonna have to find people to do other
things
steve wozniak right one of the founders
of Apple wanted to be a mid-level
engineer that was literally his quest I
want to be a mid-level engineer because
what he loved was actually going in and
coding he was essentially a painter and
he painted in code and he didn't ever
want to be in a position where he wasn't
painting now me as a filmmaker I
realized I don't want to be the one
actually they're directing I love
directing I love it
some of the greatest joy of my life has
come from directing but I will tell you
the only thing that's been more
enjoyable is to be the one above that
working with all of the creatives on
multiple projects and
really helping them all grow and develop
that for me is is even more fun than
directing so I know that's where I want
to be so you've got to figure out what
it is exactly that you want to do and
find a way to get yourself into that
position it's good that you're asking
the question you have a degree of
self-awareness that's absolutely
incredible stay focused on that all
right we're gonna have to wrap we're out
of time guys thank you so much for
joining us again if for anybody that's a
film buff into TV shows comic books go
over right now on YouTube to impact
theory studios impact theory studios and
you're gonna see some cool content that
we're putting out we're just getting
started but we've already reviewed as a
panel Blade Runner 2049 stranger things
the entire season we're about to do Thor
Ragnarok check it out come join me files
and doctor finesse as we go deep on this
stuff we're it's all about mindset what
you can extract from a mindset
perspective on movies TV shows books
comic books all that stuff but only go
there if you're into media and stuff
like that it's very much nerding and
geeking out but all from the framework
of mindset so if you have a friend
that's into that stuff be sure to share
it again that's impact theory studios
impact theory studios on YouTube all
right guys thank you so much for joining
me here today if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]